Add implementation details information for task group dynamic dependencies (#1743)
uxlfoundation/oneTBB: rfcs/proposed/task_group_dynamic_dependencies/implementation_details.md

To determine the dynamic state associated with the currently executing task, a pointer to that task must be retrieved from the task scheduler.
This is accomplished via the [new entry point](#library-abi-changes) `tbb::task* current_task_ptr()` is added. 

The `transfer_this_task_completion_to` function transfers the successors from the currently executing task to `new_task`.
If the dynamic state of the currently executing task has not been initialized, it cannot have any associated successors or completion handlers.
This means no further successors can be added.

During the transfer, the `m_new_dynamic_state` pointer is set to the dynamic state of `new_task`. The successors
are then retrieved from the original successor list and appended to the successor list of  `new_dynamic_state`.

The head pointer of the successor list is exchanged to expose the `transferred` state.

Successor list insertion into `new_task`'s dynamic state follows the same logic as `set_task_order`, but skips additional checks, as the recipient task
is guaranteed to be in the `created` state and it's state cannot change.

The sequence diagram for `transfer_this_task_completion_to` is shown below:

> <img src="assets/impl_sequence_diagram_transfer.png">

Author: Agree. Updated the figure

is guaranteed to be in the `created` state and it's state cannot change.

The sequence diagram for `transfer_this_task_completion_to` is shown below:

<img src="assets/impl_sequence_diagram_transfer.png">

### Dynamic state lifetime issue

During the implementation of `transfer_this_task_completion_to`, a lifetime management issue was identified in `task_dynamic_state`.

Initially, its reference counter was incremented only when the task or a `task_completion_handle` was created.

Consider the following example: task `A` and a `task_completion_handle` named `A_comp_handle`, initially assigned to handle the completion of `A`. 
The dynamic state `A_state` is associated with task `A`. 

While task `A` is executing, it transfers its completion to task `B` (illustrated by the red arrow in the diagram below).
The dynamic state `B_state` is associated with task `B`.

As described earlier, `A_state::m_new_dynamic_state` is set to point to `B_state` (as shown by the green arrow in the diagram).

<img src="assets/impl_lifetime_issue.png" width=800>

> After task `A` completes, task `B` is executed and subsequently destroyed, along with its associated `B_state`.

Reviewer: I would add that it is destroyed because there are no completion handles for this task (and we know that it's the typical case for continuations).

Author: Updated.

If a new successor is added using `A_comp_handle` after this point, the request will be redirected to `B_state`.

However, since `B_state` was destroyed after task `B` completed, accessing it would lead to use-after-free behavior.

> The solution is to extend the lifetime of `B_state` by incrementing its reference counter in every dynamic state that stores it in `m_new_dynamic_state`.
> The counter is then decreased when `A_state` is destroyed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solution is to extend the lifetime of `B_state` by incrementing its reference counter for the lifetime of `A_state`,
and similarly for the dynamic state of each task transferring its completion to `B`.
The counter is then decremented when `A_state` is destroyed.
```

```cpp
namespace tbb::detail::rN {
    d1::task* current_task_ptr();
}
```

The function returns a pointer to the innermost task currently being executed. If no task is executing, it returns `nullptr`.

When the scheduler retrieves a task for execution from any source, it stores a pointer to that task in the corresponding
`task_dispatcher` object. This happens before invoking either `task::execute` or `task::cancel`.

When `current_task_ptr()` is called, the pointer to the currently executing task is retrieved from the task dispatcher.

If a different task is retrieved during the execution, for example, when a blocking TBB call is made from within the task body,
the stored pointer is temporarily replaced and restored once the blocking call completes.

## Open questions to the implementation

The following questions were raised during the review of this this document and should be addressed before promoting the feature to `supported`:
* When transferring task completion, the end of the successor list is determined by traversing it, which may become a
  performance concern if the list contains many elements. Storing a tail pointer in `task_dynamic_state` may resolve this, assuming a

>   real-world case confirms the performance concern.

Reviewer: I am not sure about us having many real-world cases before productization. I would change to "assuming a realistic use case example confirms the performance concerns".

* Modifications to atomic variables in `task_dynamic_state` may in theory lead to false sharing if multiple threads

>   establish dependencies on the same task object. If this occurs in real workloads, separating the atomic members into distinct cache lines can be considered.

Reviewer: Similarly here: "If this occurs in practice, ..."

Author: Done

in more detail in a later section.

Once the reference counter in `continuation_vertex` reaches zero, the `continuation_vertex` object is destroyed.

Once a `continuation_vertex` is assigned to `task_dynamic_state::m_continuation_vertex`, it also serves as a marker that the task
has dependencies and cannot be immediately scheduled when the `task_handle` is submitted via e.g. `task_group::run`.

### The successor list

The successors of the task are organized in a forward list stored in the `task_dynamic_state`. Each element in the list is a
`successor_list_node` object, representing a simple forward list node that contains a pointer to the successor's `continuation_vertex`:

```cpp
class successor_list_node {
private:
    successor_list_node*   m_next_successor;
    continuation_vertex*   m_continuation_vertex;
    small_object_allocator m_allocator;
};
```

`task_dynamic_state` contains an atomic pointer to the `successor_list_node` that represents the head of the forward list. New elements are inserted
at the head.

The successor list in `task_dynamic_state` can be in one of the three possible states:

> * `alive` state (when `m_successor_list_head` is not equal to values below, including `nullptr`): indicates that the associated task
>   is not completed and its completion has not been transferred. In this case, new successors can be added to the current `task_dynamic_state`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `alive` state (when `m_successor_list_head` is not equal to the values below; `nullptr` is `alive`): indicates that the associated task
  is not completed and its completion has not been transferred. In this case, new successors can be added to the list.
```

* `completed` state (`m_successor_list_head` equals `~std::uintptr_t(0)`): indicates that the associated task is completed.
  Adding new successors does not add any real dependencies. Successors can proceed for execution if their other dependencies are satisfied.
* `transferred` state (`m_successor_list_head` equals `std::uintptr_t(0) - 1`): indicates that the completion of the associated task was transferred

>   to another task. In this case, any new successor should be redirected to the dynamic state of the task that has received the successors during the transfer.

Reviewer: `~0` and `-1` is the same value. Did you mean `~std::uintptr_t(0) - 1`?

If the reference counter reaches zero, the task is ready to be spawned. Otherwise, the task will be spawned by that last predecessor that releases its list
of successors.

## Transferring completion to the other task

The API `tbb::task_group::transfer_this_task_completion_to(tbb::task_handle& new_task)` works by setting `m_new_dynamic_state` in
the dynamic state of the currently executing task to point to the dynamic state of `new_task`.

To determine the dynamic state associated with the currently executing task, a pointer to the task must be obtained from the task scheduler.
To achieve this, the new entry point `tbb::task* r1::get_current_task()` is added. 

`transfer_this_task_completion_to` transfers the successors from the currently executing task to `new_task`.
If the dynamic state of the currently executing task is not initialized, there cannot be any successors associated with the task.

While transferring the successors, the `m_new_dynamic_state` pointer in the dynamic state is set to `new_task`'s dynamic state. The successors
are retrieved from the successor list and are appended to the `new_dynamic_state`'s successor list:

```cpp

> void transfer_successors_to(task_dynamic_state* new_dynamic_state) {

Reviewer: It might be useful to replace the remaining code blocks with the flow diagram for transitioning task completion.

Author: Done

# Implementation details for task group dynamic dependencies feature

*Note:* This document describes an implementation details for the [task group dynamic dependencies RFC](extended_semantics.md)

## Introduction

The [task group dynamic dependencies RFC](extended_semantics.md) describes a design for setting predecessor-
successor dependencies between tasks in various states (`make_edge` API) and replacing the currently executing
task with another task in the task graph (`transfer_successors_to` API).

The task in `created` state is expressed by `task_handle` object on the user side.
The task in other states (`created`, `submitted`, `executing` or `completed`) - by `task_tracker` object.

Similarly to `task_handle`, the `task_tracker` may be in two states - `empty`, meaning it does not
track any tasks, and `non-empty`. The only way to get a `non-empty` `task_tracker` is to construct or
assign it from a non-empty `task_handle`:

```cpp
tbb::task_group tg;
tbb::task_handle th = tg.defer(...); // task is in created state
tbb::task_tracker tt = th;
tg.run(std::move(th));
// th is empty
// tt is non-empty

> // the task is in on of the submitted->executing->completed states

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// the task is in one of the submitted->executing->completed states
```

```

While creating a predecessor-successor dependency between tasks, the task in any state is allowed as
a predecessor and only a task in created state is allowed as successor. It is exposed by the following APIs:

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {
class task_group {
public:
    static void make_edge(task_handle& pred, task_handle& succ);
    static void make_edge(task_tracker& pred, task_handle& succ);
};
}
}
```

The first overload is intended to create a predecessor-successor dependency between two tasks in `created` state.
The second overload is to create a dependency between a predecessor in any of the states and a successor
in `created` state.

Replacing the task in the task graph by the other task is exposed by transferring the successors of this

> task to another task:

Author: Yes, there are two tasks - "sending" and "receiving" successors and both of them executes independently in some manner.
But in terms of task graph, I think we can consider transferring as replacing the "sending" task with the "receiving" task in the task graph. 
Since "sending" is executing, it can't have predecessors and the successors are transferred to "receiving". So we have "receiving" in the place in the graph where "sending" was before transferring. And "sending" is now outside of the graph.

If you find this terminology incorrect, we can replace it in both this and the main RFCs.

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {
class task_group {
public:
    struct current_task {
        static void transfer_successors_to(tbb::task_handle& rec);
    };
};
}
}
```

Only the task in the `created` state is allowed to be a recipient of successors (only `task_handle` argument
is allowed).

After doing the transferring from the task `prev_task` to the task `new_task`, the new successors that
are added using the `task_tracker` to `prev_task` should be added to the `new_task`:

```cpp

tbb::task_group tg;
tbb::task_handle prev_task = tg.defer([] {
    tbb::task_handle new_task = tg.defer(...);
    tbb::task_group::current_task::transfer_successors_to(new_task);
    tg.run(std::move(new_task));
});

tbb::task_tracker prev_task_tracker = prev_task;
tg.run(std::move(prev_task));

// assume that prev task is completed at this moment
tbb::task_handle new_successor = tg.defer(...);

// new_successor is added to new_task
tbb::task_group::make_edge(prev_task_tracker, new_successor);
```

## Implementation details

> ### Classes layout before implementing the proposal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Class layouts before implementing the proposal
```

Currently, there are two types of tasks that are used in the `task_group` - `function_task` and `function_stack_task`.

> `function_task` is created then a non-waiting submission functions, such as `task_group::run` are used.
> `function_stack_task` is created only when `task_group::run_and_wait`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`function_task` is created when non-waiting submission functions, such as `task_group::run` are used.
`function_stack_task` is created only when `task_group::run_and_wait` is used.
```

The difference between these types of tasks is that `function_task` copies the body
to itself and `function_stack_task` uses a reference to the use body instance since
it can't be destroyed before the blocking API finishes.

> Due to API limitations, only the `function_task` can be owned by the `task_handle`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Due to API limitations, only a `function_task` can be owned by a `task_handle`.
```

> `function_task` is inherited from the `task_handle_task` object that manages the lifetime of the task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`function_task` inherits from `task_handle_task` that manages the lifetime of the task.
```

> Due to API limitations, only the `function_stack_task` can be owned by the `task_handle`.
> 
> `function_stack_task` is inherited from the `task_handle_task` object that manages the lifetime of the task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to API limitations, only the `function_task` can be owned by the `task_handle`.

`function_task` is inherited from the `task_handle_task` object that manages the lifetime of the task.
```

> `task_handle_task` and `function_stack_task` are inherited from the basic `task` class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`task_handle_task` and `function_stack_task` inherit from the basic `task` class.
```

`task_handle` class is implemented as a `unique_ptr` owning the `task_handle_task` instance.

> The class layout is shown on the picture below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The class layout is shown in the picture below:
```

<img src="assets/impl_prev_class_layout.png" width=600>

### `task_dynamic_state` class

The main part of the APIs described above are implemented as part of the new
`task_dynamic_state` class. It is intended to manage the task status (in progress, completed, transferred),
current list of successors and linkage with the new task after the transferring.

> Its layout would be described in details in the later sections. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Its layout is described in detail in the later sections. 
```

> It's layout would be described in details in the later sections. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its layout would be described in details in the later sections. 
```

> Each task in the task group that can have predecessors or successors has the `task_dynamic_state` instance associated with it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each task in the task group that can have predecessors or successors has a`task_dynamic_state` instance associated with it.
```

> Each task in the task group that can have predecessors or successors have the `task_dynamic_state` instance associated with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each task in the task group that can have predecessors or successors has the `task_dynamic_state` instance associated with it.
```

Since `make_edge` API allows completed tasks as predecessors, it is required to prolong the lifetime of the `task_dynamic_state`
instance associated with the task even after the task completion until the last `tbb::task_tracker` object associated with the

> task would be destroyed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
task is destroyed.
```

### `task_with_dynamic_state` class

To associate the instance of `task_dynamic_state` with the task, the current implementation adds the new class `task_with_dynamic_state`
in the schema above between `task_handle_task` and `task` classes. This class contains the atomic pointer to the `task_dynamic_state`
instance associated with the task:

<img src="assets/impl_new_class_layout.png" width=1000>

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {

class task_dynamic_state { /*...*/ };

class task { /*...*/ };

class task_with_dynamic_state : public task {
public:
    task_with_dynamic_state();
    ~task_with_dynamic_state();

    task_dynamic_state* get_dynamic_state();
    void complete_task();
private:
    std::atomic<task_dynamic_state*> m_state;
};

class task_handle_task : public task_with_dynamic_state { /*...*/ };
class function_task : public task_handle_task { /*...*/ };

} // namespace tbb
} // namespace oneapi
```

The main responsibility of the `task_with_dynamic_state` class is to lazily create the `task_dynamic_state` object associated
with the task and provide access to the created object.

> Default constructor of the `task_with_dynamic_state` does not create a `task_dynamic_state` instance associated with the task
> not to introduce additional overhead on creating the instance if the dynamic task dependencies feature is not used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid introducing possibly unnecessary overhead, the default constructor of the `task_with_dynamic_state`
does not create a `task_dynamic_state` instance.
```

The instance is created once the `get_dynamic_state()` function is called the first time. This function is called in the following cases:
* `task_tracker` object is constructed or assigned from the `task_handle` object owning the task,

> * The `make_edge(pred, succ)` function was called to make a predecessor-successor dependency between `pred` and `succ`. associated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The `make_edge(pred, succ)` function is called to make a predecessor-successor dependency between `pred` and `succ`. Associated
```

  dynamic states are created for `pred` and `succ` tasks.

> * `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` function was called from the running task, the dynamic state is created for `new_task`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` function is called from the running task. The dynamic state is created for `new_task`.
```

> If there are several concurrent threads that are doing one of the actions above with the same task instance (e.g. concurrently adding
> successors to the same predecessor for which the dynamic state was not yet created), each of threads allocates the new dynamic state object
> and tries to update the atomic object in `task_with_dynamic_state` by doing the `compare_exchange_strong` operation. If it fails, meaning
> another thread has created and updated the dynamic state before the current thread, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there are several concurrent threads that are doing one of the actions above with the same task instance (e.g. concurrently adding
successors to the same predecessor for which the dynamic state was not yet created), each threads allocates the new dynamic state object
and tries to update the atomic object in `task_with_dynamic_state` by doing a `compare_exchange_strong` operation. If it fails, meaning
another thread has created and updated the dynamic state before the current thread, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:
```

> another thread have created and updated the dynamic state before the current thread, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
another thread has created and updated the dynamic state before the current thread, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:
```

```cpp
class task_with_dynamic_state : public task {
public:
    task_dynamic_state* get_dynamic_state() {
        task_dynamic_state* current_state = m_state;

        if (current_state == nullptr) {
            // The dynamic state was not yet created
            small_object_allocator alloc;
            task_dynamic_state* new_state = alloc.new_object<task_dynamic_state>(alloc);

            if (m_state.compare_exchange_strong(current_state, new_state)) {
                // Current thread updated the state
                // Reserve a task co-ownership for dynamic state
                new_state->reserve();
                current_state = new_state;
            } else {
                // Other thread updated the state
                alloc.delete_object(new_state);
            }
        }

        return current_state;
    }
private:
    std::atomic<task_dynamic_state*> m_state;
};
```

The `new_state->reserve()` in case of successful CAS is needed to prolong the lifetime of `task_dynamic_state` until the task

> is in progress. Once the task destroys, the reference counter in `task_dynamic_state` is decreased.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is in progress. When the task is destroyed, the reference counter in `task_dynamic_state` is decreased.
```

    task_tracker(task_tracker&& other) : m_state(other.m_state) {
        other.m_state = nullptr;
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(task_tracker&& other) { /*same logic*/ }

    task_tracker(const task_handle& th) : m_state(th ? th.get_dynamic_state() : nullptr) {
        if (m_state) m_state->reserve();
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(const task_handle& th) { /*same logic*/ }

    ~task_tracker() { if (m_state) m_state->release(); }
};

}
}
```

### `task_dynamic_state` in details

As it was mentioned above, `task_dynamic_state` class implements the tracking of task's state (completed or not completed),
the list of successors and the post-transfer actions. It has the following layout:

```cpp
class task_dynamic_state {
private:
    task_with_dynamic_state*           m_task;
    std::atomic<successors_list_node*> m_successors_list_head;
    std::atomic<continuation_vertex*>  m_continuation_vertex;
    std::atomic<task_dynamic_state*>   m_new_dynamic_state;
    std::atomic<std::size_t>           m_num_references;
    small_object_allocator             m_allocator;
};
```

`m_task` is a pointer to the task, with which the current dynamic state is associated.

> `m_successors_list_head` is an atomic pointer to the head of the successor's list of the currently served task. It is also used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`m_successors_list_head` is an atomic pointer to the head of the successor's list of the associated task. It is also used
```

> `m_successors_list_head` is an atomic pointing to the head of the successor's list of the currently served task. It is also used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`m_successors_list_head` is an atomic pointer to the head of the successor's list of the currently served task. It is also used
```

as a marker of the task completion. It would be described in details in the following sections.

> `m_continuation_vertex` is an atomic pointer to eh `continuation_vertex` object associated with the currently served task. The purpose of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`m_continuation_vertex` is an atomic pointer to the  `continuation_vertex` object associated with the currently served task. The purpose of the
```

> `continuation_vertex` would be described in the following sections.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`continuation_vertex` is described in the following sections.
```

> `m_new_dynamic_state` is an atomic pointer to the other dynamic state instance. It is used when the currently served task calls

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`m_new_dynamic_state` is an atomic pointer to the other dynamic state instance. It is used when the associated task calls
```

`transfer_successors_to(new_task)` while executing. `m_new_dynamic_state` will point to `new_task`s dynamic state after doing the transfer.

> It would be described in details in the section about transferring the successors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is described in details in the section about transferring the successors.
```

> `m_num_references` and `m_allocator` are managing the lifetime of the dynamic state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`m_num_references` and `m_allocator` manage the lifetime of the dynamic state.
```

The stored reference counter is increased when:
* `task_dynamic_state` associated with the task is created, the reference is reserved for the task object.

> * `task_tracker` instance for the task is created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* a `task_tracker` instance for the task is created.
```

> * `task_tracker` instance for the task is created.

Reviewer 3: It is legal to have more than one `task_tracker` for a task, I think the added "a" implies that there's not just one `task_tracker` but that you increment the reference count whenever a `task_tracker` is create. Although maybe it should be made more clear that multiple trackers are allowed for the same task.

> * `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` is called, the dynamic state of the currently executing task reserves a reference on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` is called, the dynamic state of the associated task reserves a reference on the
```

  dynamic state of `new_task`. See [lifetime issue](#dynamic-state-lifetime-issue) section for more details.

The stored reference counter is decreased when:

> * The associated task is completed, before destroying the task instance

Reviewer 3: Just want to confirm that this is safe to decrement before the task is destroyed because once a task starts executing the only way to refer to a task_dynamic_state is through a task_tracker not a task.

> * `task_tracker` instance associated with the task is destroyed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* a `task_tracker` instance associated with the task is destroyed
```

> * `task_dynamic_state` of the task that did `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` while executing is destroyed. In this case, the reference

Reviewer 3: Maybe its addressed later, but can two tasks transfer successors to the same `new_task`? If so, "the" should be "a".

Author: Replaced with "a"

> * `task_dynamic_state` of the task that did `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` while executing is destroyed. In this case, the reference

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `task_dynamic_state` of a task that did `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` while executing is destroyed. In this case, the reference
```

  counter of dynamic state associated with `new_task` is decreased. See [lifetime issue](#dynamic-state-lifetime-issue) for more details.

> Once the reference counter is decreased the last time (is equivalent to `0`), the `task_dynamic_state` pointer by `this` is destroyed
> and deallocated using `m_allocator`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the reference counter is decreased the last time (is equivalent to `0`), the `task_dynamic_state` is destroyed
and then deallocated using `m_allocator`.
```

* When a `task_tracker` instance is created (either from a non-empty `task_handle` or by copying an existing tracker).
* When `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` is called, the dynamic state of the currently executing task reserves a reference to the
  dynamic state of `new_task`. See the [lifetime issue](#dynamic-state-lifetime-issue) section for more details.

The stored reference counter is decreased:
* When the associated task is completed, before the task instance is destroyed.
* When a `task_tracker` instance associated with the task is destroyed.
* When the `task_dynamic_state` of a task that called `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` is destroyed. In this case, the reference
  counter of the dynamic state associated with `new_task` is decreased. See the [lifetime issue](#dynamic-state-lifetime-issue) section for more details.

Once the reference counter reaches zero, the `task_dynamic_state` is destroyed and deallocated using `m_allocator`.

## Create dependencies between tasks

### `continuation_vertex` class

`continuation_vertex` is a class that represents the associated task as a successor of other tasks.

> It maintains an additional reference counter, which is incremented:

Author: If we replace continuation vertex in `task_dynamic_state` with a pointer to `reference_vertex` and assume it is dynamically allocated, we will have the same amount of allocations and will need to manage the correct allocator usage. Currently `task_dynamic_state` and `continuation_vertex` can be allocated by different threads and therefore with different `small_object_allocator` instances.

In theory, we can replace `m_continuation_vertex` with the reference counter (or a special vertex if we want to support distributed wait in the future) and exclude dynamic allocations at all.
* Reference counter equal to zero would mean no dependencies. (replaces `m_continuation_vertex == nullptr`)
* If `run` detects reference counter that is not equal to zero, it decreases it and if it is the last reference - spawns the task
* The first reserve on the ref counter would reserve additional reference for the `task_handle` owning the task.

> It maintains an additional reference counter, which is incremented:

Reviewer: > If we replace continuation vertex in `task_dynamic_state` with a pointer to `reference_vertex` and assume it is dynamically allocated, we will have the same amount of allocations and will need to manage the correct allocator usage.

I missed this aspect, thanks for explaining. But then, why cannot `task_dynamic_state` inherit `reference_vertex`?

> In theory, we can replace m_continuation_vertex with the reference counter (or a special vertex if we want to support distributed wait in the future) and exclude dynamic allocations at all.

That's also an option, but I guess the refcounting machinery is already implemented in `reference_vertex` and we prefer to reuse it.

> It maintains an additional reference counter, which is incremented:

Author: I have changed the document and the implementation - the `continuation_vertex` class was removed and replaced by the dependency counter in `task_dynamic_state`.
The `reference_vertex` cannot be reused because both `reserve` and `release` implementations are different. `reserve` needs to add one more reference for the first increase (for `task_handle` owning the task). `release` need to return the pointer to the task if the counter reaches zero. 
Since the distributed ref counting is not applied now, there is no need to introduce the special vertex.

```cpp
class successor_list_node {
private:
    successor_list_node*   m_next_successor;
    continuation_vertex*   m_continuation_vertex;
    small_object_allocator m_allocator;
};
```

`task_dynamic_state` contains an atomic pointer to the `successor_list_node` that represents the head of the forward list. New elements are inserted
at the head.

The successor list in `task_dynamic_state` can have two possible states:
* `Alive` state (when `m_successor_list_head` is not equal to `~std::uintptr_t(0)`, including `nullptr`): indicates that the associated task
  is not completed and its successors have not been transferred. In this state, new successors can be added to the current `task_dynamic_state`.
* `Dead` state (when `m_successor_list_head` equals `~std::uintptr_t(0)`): indicates one of two scenarios:
    * The associated task is completed. Adding new successors does not add any real dependencies. Successors can proceed for execution if their other dependencies are satisfied.
    * The associated task has transferred its successors to another task. In this case, any new successor should be redirected to the dynamic state

>       of the task that have received the successors during the transfer. `m_new_dynamic_state` should point to that receiving state.

Author: Yes, It makes sense. It will allow to differentiate between `completed` and `proxy` using only the state read from the successor list head instead of loading the atomic for tasks that complete without transfer. 

I have updated the implementation PRs and will update this document as well.

the allocation of the forward-list node), the function checks `m_new_dynamic_state`, as described above.

If the new state is assigned, `add_successor_node` redirects the successor to the new state by calling `new_state->add_successor_node(node)`.

Otherwise, the task is considered completed and the successor should not be added to the list. The function releases the previously reserved reference
in `cont_vertex` and deallocates the node.

If the list is alive, the function attempts to insert the successor node at the head of the list using a CAS operation on `m_successor_list_head`.

Each CAS failure (i.e., `m_successor_list_head` was updated) may indicate that:
* Another thread added a different predecessor and updated the list head.
* Another thread completed the task.
* Another thread transferred the task's successors.

In the first case, the CAS operation should simply be retried, as the successor still needs to be added.
In latter two cases, the same checks described above should be repeated.

The sequence diagram of `make_edge` is shown in the picture below:

<img src="assets/impl_sequence_diagram.png">

The flow of `make_edge` is shown in the code snippet below:

> ```cpp

Author: Agree, removed

```cpp
class task_group {
public:
    void run(tbb::task_handle&& t) {
        spawn(*t.release()); // release returns task*
    }
};
```

The dynamic dependencies feature allows a `tbb::task_handle` to own a task that cannot be spawned due to dependencies. It must check whether the owned task
has any dependencies (i.e., whether `m_continuation_vertex` is initialized) and, if so, decrement the reference counter in the vertex.

If the dynamic state is not initialized for the task, it cannot have any dependencies and is spawned immediately.

If the reference counter reaches zero, the task is ready to be spawned. Otherwise, it will be spawned by that last predecessor that releases its list
of successors.

## Transferring successors to the other task

The API `tbb::task_group::current_task::transfer_successors_to(tbb::task_handle& new_task)` works by setting `m_new_dynamic_state` in
the dynamic state of the currently executing task to point to the dynamic state of `new_task`.

To determine the dynamic state associated with the currently executing task, a pointer to the task must be obtained from the task scheduler.

> To achieve this, the new entry point `tbb::task* r1::current_task()` is added. 

Author: Added a separate "Library ABI changes" section

retrieves the successor list, and appends it to `new_dynamic_state`:

```cpp
class task_dynamic_state {
private:
    std::atomic<successor_list_node*> m_successor_list_head;
    std::atomic<task_dynamic_state*>   m_new_dynamic_state;
public:
    void transfer_successors_to(task_dynamic_state* new_dynamic_state) {
        // register current dynamic state as a co-owner of the new state
        // to prolong its lifetime if the recipient task completes
        // see dynamic state lifetime issue section for more details
        new_dynamic_state->reserve();

        m_new_dynamic_state.store(new_dynamic_state);
        successor_list_node* list = m_successor_list_head.exchange(~std::uintptr_t(0));
        new_dynamic_state->add_successor_list(list);
    }
};
```

`add_successor_list` is implemented similarly to `add_successor`, but without additional checks, since the recipient task
can only be in the `created` state and cannot change.

```cpp
void task_dynamic_state::add_successor_list(successor_list_node* list) {
    if (list != nullptr) {
        // Finding the last node in the list
        successor_list_node* last_node = list;

>         while (last_node->get_next() != nullptr) last_node = last_node->get_next();

Reviewer: Is this traversal a potential performance concern, or do we not expect the lists to be big enough for real troubles?

We could in principle add a pointer to the tail of the list to the dynamic state. If extra space is a concern, it could be put into a union with `m_new_dynamic_state`.

The main parts of the APIs described in the [parent RFC](extended_semantics.md) are implemented as part of the new
`task_dynamic_state` class. It is responsible for managing the task status (in progress, completed, transferred),
the current list of successors, and the linkage to a new task after a transfer.
Its layout is described in detail in later sections.

Each task in the task group that have predecessors or successors has an associated `task_dynamic_state` instance.

Since the `make_edge` API allows completed tasks to act as predecessors, the lifetime of the associated `task_dynamic_state`
instance must be extended beyond task completion - until the last `tbb::task_tracker` referencing the task is destroyed.

## Changes in `task_handle_task` class layout

To associate an `task_dynamic_state` instance with a task, the current implementation adds a new atomic pointer field, `m_dynamic_state`,
to the `task_handle_task` class. 

The new class hierarchy is shown in the diagram below:

<img src="assets/impl_new_class_layout.png" width=1000>

To avoid introducing potentially unnecessary overhead for applications that do not use the dynamic dependencies feature,

> the initial value of `m_dynamic_state` is `nullptr`, meaning no dynamic state is associated with the task.

Reviewer: I do not think that the new pointer in `task_handle_task` is a pay-as-you-go concern; but it is indeed a layout compatibility concern. And it is not completely mitigated by the preview status, unless the implications are expanded to the whole class - i.e., unless the preview feature is not "new task group functions" but "task groups with new functions", and one may not simultaneously use both preview and production task groups.

I tend to think that the new namespace version becomes necessary if new class data members are added, even if only for preview functionality.

> the initial value of `m_dynamic_state` is `nullptr`, meaning no dynamic state is associated with the task.

Author: In terms of passing TBB objects through the TU border, do we claim binary incompatibility of a preview and non-preview **library** or **feature**?
I thought the incompatibility of the whole library is the case. 
If it is really the case, means passing any items between TUs built with and without preview macro is not guaranteed to work. Hence, `d` namespace version increase is not required.

If we claim that only the new functions and classes are affected, and it is safe to pass `task_group` or `task_handle` between such translation units, the version increase is necessary.

If multiple threads concurrently perform the actions above on the same task instance (e.g. concurrently adding
successors to the same predecessor before its dynamic state is created), each thread allocates a new dynamic state object
and attempts to update the atomic object in `task_handle_task` using a `compare_exchange_strong` operation. If the operation fails, meaning
another thread has already stored the dynamic state, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:

The created `task_dynamic_state` object initially holds a reference counter to prolong its lifetime
while the task is in progress. When the task is destroyed, this reference counter is decreased.

## `tbb::task_tracker` class implementation

The `tbb::task_tracker` class represents a task for the purpose of creating task dependencies. It can be constructed or assigned from a
`task_handle`. It is copyable and movable, with copies referring to the same `task_dynamic_state` object.

The dynamic state of a task remains valid until both the task and all associated `task_tracker` objects are destroyed.

A default-constructed `tbb::task_tracker` does not represent any task.

```cpp

> class task_tracker {

Reviewer: > I have left only the declarations of the methods.

Maybe even that is not needed, as the class is well described in the "main" RFC. Please re-check what new information about the class implementation is provided here, and whether it is really useful.

        if (this != &other) {
            if (m_state) m_state->release();
            m_state = other.m_state;
            if (m_state) m_state->reserve();
        }
        return *this;
    }

    task_tracker(task_tracker&& other) : m_state(other.m_state) {
        other.m_state = nullptr;
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(task_tracker&& other) {
        if (this != &other) {
            if (m_state) m_state->release();
            m_state = other.m_state;
            other.m_state = nullptr;
        }
        return *this;
    }

    task_tracker(const task_handle& th) : m_state(th ? th.get_dynamic_state() : nullptr) {
        if (m_state) m_state->reserve();
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(const task_handle& th) {
        if (m_state) m_state->release();

        if (th) {
            m_state = th.get_dynamic_state();
            m_state->reserve();
        } else {
            m_state = nullptr;
        }
        return *this;
    }

    ~task_tracker() { if (m_state) m_state->release(); }
};
```

## `task_dynamic_state` in details

As mentioned above, the `task_dynamic_state` class tracks a task's state (completed or not),

> its list of successors, and any post-transfer actions. It has the following layout:

Reviewer 4: What is meant by "post-transfer" actions here? Is it about using the `m_new_dynamic_state` pointer after `transfer_successors_to` was made?

`p_d_state` is redirected to `new_d_state`. Since its successor list is also in the `dead` state, no changes are made.

Since no dependencies were added, `succ_task` is scheduled. After `succ_task` completes, its successor list is marked as `dead`, and
its reference counter is decremented. Since it is the last reference counter, `s_d_state` is destroyed.

When `pred_tr` is destroyed, the final references in both `p_d_state` and `new_d_state` are released, resulting in their destruction.

#### Linearization 2

In the second linearization scenario, the edge is created before the predecessor task is executed and before transfer is performed.

<img src="assets/state_diagram_transfer2.png">

State transitions when the `pred` handle and tracker are created are identical to the previous case.

When `make_edge` is executed, the continuation vertex of `s_d_state` is added to the successor list of `p_d_state`.

During the transfer, the continuation vertex is moved from `p_d_state` to `new_d_state`.
All other state transitions remain the same as in the previous linearization scenario.

> When `new_task` completes, it retrieves the successor list containing the `SCV` and decrements the reference counter in the continuation vertex.

Author: Your understanding is partially correct. There are two reference counters.
One handles the lifetime of `task_dynamic_state` (that is shown on the diagram). It holds references for task itself, trackers and other dynamic states that did the transfer. 
The second reference counter is in the continuation vertex (it is hidden in the diagram, but mentioned in the highlighted sentence). It holds reference counters for each predecessor task and for the `task_hande` owning the successor task. 
And this second reference counter is initialized with two reference, as you stated, to prevent execution of the successor task before the `task_handle` is submitted.

But since the `B_state` was destroyed after finalizing the task `B`, it will access the memory that was already deallocated.

The solution is to prolong the lifetime of `B_state` by increasing the reference counter for each state having `B_state` as `m_new_dynamic_state`.
The reference counter is decreased when the `A_state` is destroyed.

### Dynamic state transition examples

Consider several examples on how the associated dynamic state changes in different states of the task.

#### Creating the edges

The first example illustrates the following code:

```cpp
tbb::task_handle pred = tg.defer(...);
tbb::task_handle succ = tg.defer(...);

tbb::task_tracker pred_tr = pred;

tbb::task_group::make_edge(pred, succ);

tg.run(std::move(pred));
tg.run_and_wait(std::move(succ));
```

<img src="assets/state_diagram_make_edge.png">

Changes in the states on each step are highlighted with the red.

As it was stated above, `task_handle` constructors do not create `task_dynamic_state`.

An object for the predecessor task is created while constructing the `task_tracker` and the state for

> the successor task is created while calling `make_edge`.

Author: Fixed

`p_d_state` is redirected to the `new_d_state`. It's successors list is also in `dead` state, hence no changes in the successors list and in dynamic
states are made.

Since no dependencies were added, `succ_task` is scheduled. After completing the task, `s_d_state`'s successors list is set to `dead` state and
a reference counter is released. Since it is the last reference counter, `s_d_state` is destroyed.

When the `pred_tr` is destroyed, the last reference is released in both `p_d_state` and `new_d_state` and the corresponding objects are destroyed.

#### Linearization 2

As a second option, consider creating the edge before executing the predecessor task and before doing the transfer:

<img src="assets/state_diagram_transfer2.png">

State transitions when the `pred` handle and tracker are created are identical to the previous case.

When the `make_edge` is executed, the continuation vertex of `s_d_state` is added into the successors list of `p_d_state`.

While doing the transferring, this continuation vertex is transferred from `p_d_state` to `new_d_state`. Other changes are identical.

> When the `new_task` is completed, it fetches the successor list containing the `SCV` and releases the reference counter in the vertex.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't `SCV` start off with 2 refs,
* then 1 ref after `new_task` completion,
* then 0 ref after `succ_task` submission?

# Implementation details for task group dynamic dependencies feature

*Note:* This document describes implementation details for the [task group dynamic dependencies RFC](extended_semantics.md)

> ## Introduction

Author: I agree, introduction does not add any value here, since everything is presented in the parent RFC. I have removed it.

// the task is in one of the submitted->executing->completed states
```

While creating a predecessor-successor dependency between tasks, any task state is allowed for
a predecessor but only a task in the `created` state is allowed as successor. It is exposed by the following APIs:

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {
class task_group {
public:
    static void make_edge(task_handle& pred, task_handle& succ);
    static void make_edge(task_tracker& pred, task_handle& succ);
};
}
}
```

The first overload is intended to create a predecessor-successor dependency between two tasks in the `created` state.
The second overload is to create a dependency between a predecessor in any of the states and a successor
in the `created` state.

While executing a task, a new task can be added to the task graph and the successors of the
currently executing task can be transferred to this new task:

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {
class task_group {
public:
    struct current_task {
        static void transfer_successors_to(tbb::task_handle& rec);
    };
};
}
}
```

Only a task in the `created` state is allowed to be a recipient of successors (only `task_handle` argument

> is allowed).

Author: I see this extension as having two additional overloads for `make_edge`:
```cpp
class task_group {
public:
    static void make_edge(task_handle& pred, task_tracker& succ);
    static void make_edge(task_tracker& pred, task_tracker& succ);
};
```

We will also need to strictly define the limitations for `succ`. Something like, if `succ` tracks the task in the state, other than `created` or `submitted`, or the state is concurrently changing while creating the edge, the behavior is undefined. 
But I agree, we need to have a use-case for this first.

```cpp

tbb::task_group tg;
tbb::task_handle prev_task = tg.defer([] {
    tbb::task_handle new_task = tg.defer(...);
    tbb::task_group::current_task::transfer_successors_to(new_task);
    tg.run(std::move(new_task));
});

tbb::task_tracker prev_task_tracker = prev_task;
tg.run(std::move(prev_task));

// assume that prev task is completed at this moment
tbb::task_handle new_successor = tg.defer(...);

// new_successor is added to new_task
tbb::task_group::make_edge(prev_task_tracker, new_successor);
```

## Implementation details

### Class layouts before implementing the proposal

Currently, there are two types of tasks used in the `task_group`: `function_task` and `function_stack_task`.
A `function_task` is created when non-blocking submission functions, such as `task_group::run` are used.
A `function_stack_task` is created only when `task_group::run_and_wait` is used.

The difference between these types of tasks is that `function_task` copies the body
to itself and `function_stack_task` uses a reference to the user-provided body instance since
it cannot be destroyed before the blocking API finishes.

> Due to API limitations, only a `function_task` can be owned by a `task_handle`.

Author: I don't think it can simplify the implementation and I don't see how the place where the additional pointer is placed can affect the covered use-cases. 
Potential usage of these 48 bytes can be discussed. The only doubt I have is that we will reuse part of them only for the `task_handle_task`s. What if other types of tasks need to use this space as well?

The class layout is shown in the picture below:

<img src="assets/impl_prev_class_layout.png" width=600>

### `task_dynamic_state` class

The main parts of the APIs described above are implemented as part of the new
`task_dynamic_state` class. It is intended to manage the task status (in progress, completed, transferred),
current list of successors, and linkage with the new task after transferring.
Its layout is described in detail in later sections. 

Each task in the task group that can have predecessors or successors has a `task_dynamic_state` instance associated with it.

Since the `make_edge` API allows completed tasks as predecessors, it is necessary to prolong the lifetime of the `task_dynamic_state`
instance associated with the task even after its completion, until the last `tbb::task_tracker` object associated with the
task is destroyed.

### `task_with_dynamic_state` class

To associate an instance of `task_dynamic_state` with a task, the current implementation introduces a new class `task_with_dynamic_state`
inserted between `task_handle_task` and `task` classes in the class hierarchy. This class contains an atomic pointer to the `task_dynamic_state`

> instance associated with the task:

Author: Good point! This part was kept since `current_task::add_successors` was part of the proposal, to add dynamic state to `function_stack_task` as well.

I have updated the POC and this document with the removal of `task_with_dynamic_state`.

does not create a `task_dynamic_state` instance.

The instance is created the first time the `get_dynamic_state()` function is called. This function is called in the following cases:
* `task_tracker` object is constructed or assigned from the `task_handle` object owning the task,
* The `make_edge(pred, succ)` function is called to make a predecessor-successor dependency between `pred` and `succ`. Associated
  dynamic states are created for `pred` and `succ` tasks.
* `transfer_successors_to(new_task)` function is called from the running task. The dynamic state is created for `new_task`.

If several concurrent threads perform one of the actions above on the same task instance (e.g. concurrently adding
successors to the same predecessor for which the dynamic state has not yet been created), each thread allocates a new dynamic state object
and attempts to update the atomic object in `task_with_dynamic_state` using a `compare_exchange_strong` operation. If it fails, meaning
another thread has created and updated the dynamic state before the current thread, the state allocated by the current thread is destroyed:

```cpp
class task_with_dynamic_state : public task {
public:

>     task_dynamic_state* get_dynamic_state() {

Author: This code block was removed. I also thought about direct references to the POC, but I did not want to keep references to the development branch in this document.

            task_dynamic_state* new_state = alloc.new_object<task_dynamic_state>(alloc);

            if (m_state.compare_exchange_strong(current_state, new_state)) {
                // Current thread updated the state
                // Reserve a task co-ownership for dynamic state
                new_state->reserve();
                current_state = new_state;
            } else {
                // Other thread updated the state
                alloc.delete_object(new_state);
            }
        }

        return current_state;
    }
private:
    std::atomic<task_dynamic_state*> m_state;
};
```

The `new_state->reserve()` in case of successful CAS is needed to prolong the lifetime of `task_dynamic_state` until the task
is in progress. When the task is destroyed, the reference counter in `task_dynamic_state` is decreased.

### `tbb::task_tracker` class implementation

The `tbb::task_tracker` class implements a shared pointer to the `task_dynamic_state` object. Each copy of a `task_tracker` object
associated with a task increases the reference counter stored in the dynamic state to prolong its lifetime until all associated trackers are destroyed.

> An empty `tbb::task_tracker` models an empty shared pointer and does not increase or decrease any reference counters.

Author: Applied.

```cpp
namespace oneapi {
namespace tbb {

class task_tracker {
private:
    task_dynamic_state* m_state;
public:
    task_tracker() : m_state(nullptr) {}

    task_tracker(const task_tracker& other) : m_state(other.m_state) {
        if (m_state) m_state->reserve();
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(const task_tracker& other) { /*same logic*/ }

    task_tracker(task_tracker&& other) : m_state(other.m_state) {
        other.m_state = nullptr;
    }
    task_tracker& operator=(task_tracker&& other) { /*same logic*/ }

    task_tracker(const task_handle& th) : m_state(th ? th.get_dynamic_state() : nullptr) {
        if (m_state) m_state->reserve();

>     }

Reviewer: That raises the question: should we maybe consider construction from an empty task handle undefined behavior? In other words, is not it always a mistake when a tracker is constructed from an empty handle? After all, if you want an empty tracker, there is the default constructor.

>     }

Author: I agree, that we can treat the construction from an empty task_handle as an error.

of `succ1` and `succ2`.

When `pred2` traverses its successors list, it decreases the reference counters in `succ1` and `succ2`. Both of them are equal to `0` now and hence
`succ1` and `succ2` can be submitted for execution. One of them can be bypassed from `pred2` and one of them spawned. This is further described 
in a separate section below.

Once the reference counter in `continuation_vertex` is decremented to be `0`, the `continuation_vertex` object is destroyed.

Having a `continuation_vertex` assigned to the task (`m_continuation_vertex` not equal to `nullptr` in `task_dynamic_state`) also serves as
a marker that the associated task has dependencies and cannot be unconditionally submitted for execution once the `task_handle` owning this task
is received in one of the submit functions (e.g. `task_group::run`).

#### The successors list

The successors of the task are organized in a forward list stored in the `task_dynamic_state`. Each element in the list is an object of
`successors_list_node` class, representing a simple forward list node that contains a pointer to the `continuation_vertex` of the successor:

```cpp
class successors_list_node {
private:

>     successors_list_node*  m_new_successor;

Author: Fixed in later version

concurrently to the same predecessor and adding multiple predecessors concurrently to the same successor.

As mentioned above, the `make_edge` API first obtains the dynamic states associated with the predecessor and successor by calling the
`get_dynamic_state()` function. If the dynamic states have not yet been created, they are created. The function `internal_make_edge(pred_state, succ_state)`
receives two dynamic states - the state of predecessor and the state of successor.

The next stage in adding a successor is obtaining the `continuation_vertex` associated with `succ_state`. As it was described above, if the vertex
was not yet initialized, it is initialized on this stage. `internal_make_edge` then calls the `pred_state->add_successor(cont_vertex)` function
where `cont_vertex` is a `continuation_vertex` of the successor.

As a first step, the function `add_successor` checks the state of the successors list. If the list is not alive, there are two possible scenarios -
the task is either completed or has transferred successors to the other task.

If the `m_new_dynamic_state` atomic variable is set, than transferring has occurred and the function redirects the new successor

> to the `m_new_dynamic_state` by calling `new_state->add_successor(cont_vertex)`.

Reviewer: That is one of my concerns as well. In the recursively built task graphs, transfer chains are quite likely. I think it makes sense to think if/when such chains might become bottlenecks.

> to the `m_new_dynamic_state` by calling `new_state->add_successor(cont_vertex)`.

Author: In fact, all of the examples with recursively built task graphs that we consider did not require transfer chains. Usage of the transferring meant splitting the task, and the task only split once (and transferred the successors to the "reduction" task that usually do not split). 
Transferring chains seems for me more like a rear use-case support and I don't have an idea on how to implement it differently with preserving the correct state of all `task_tracker`s and `task_dynamic_state`s.

If the successors list is alive, the `add_successor` function reserves a reference in `cont_vertex` for the predecessor, allocates the
`successors_list_node` pointing to it and calls `add_successor_node` function that operates with the node instead of the continuation vertex itself.

`add_successor_node` re-reads the state of the successors list and if it is not alive (meaning the task have completed or transferred successors during
allocation of the forward-list node), the function checks `m_new_dynamic_state` in a similar way as described above. 

If the new state is assigned, `add_successor_node` redirects the successor to the new state by calling `new_state->add_successor_node(node)`.

Otherwise, the task is completed and the successor should not be added into the list. The function releases the reference that was previously reserved
in the `cont_vertex` and removes the previously allocated node.

If the list is alive, the function tries to insert the successor node into the head of the list by doing a CAS operation on `m_successors_list_head`.

Every CAS failure (meaning the `m_successors_list_head` value is updated) may mean that:

> * Other thread adds an other predecessor and updated the head of the list.

Author: Changed in later version.

The submission function must check whether the owned task has any dependencies (i.e., whether `m_num_dependencies` is non-zero) and, if so,
decrement the counter.

If the task's dynamic state is not initialized, it cannot have any dependencies and is spawned immediately.

If the dependency counter reaches zero, the task is ready to be spawned. Otherwise, it will be spawned or bypassed by the last predecessor that releases its list
of successors.

## Transferring completion to the other task

The API `tbb::task_group::transfer_this_task_completion_to(tbb::task_handle& new_task)` operates by setting `m_new_dynamic_state` in
the dynamic state of the currently executing task to point to the dynamic state of `new_task`.

To determine the dynamic state associated with the currently executing task, a pointer to that task must be retrieved from the task scheduler.
This is accomplished via the [new entry point](#library-abi-changes) `tbb::task* current_task_ptr()` is added. 

The `transfer_this_task_completion_to` transfers the successors from the currently executing task to `new_task`.

> If the dynamic state of the currently executing task has not been initialized, it cannot have any associated successors.

Author: Added clarification.
